[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations
and was intimately involved
with UFO ET-related content.
Welcome, Richard.
>>RICHARD DOTY: Thank you.
>>EMERY: Now you worked at
Dugway Air Force Base up
there are the Proving Grounds.
Tell me, what were
you doing there?
>>RICHARD: Well, in 1981
the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations
at Hill Air Force base
received a letter from a guy by
the name of Raymond Petrovsky.
Raymond, in this
letter, described
that he'd had contact with
an extraterrestrial race
and that he wanted to
turn the information over
to a government
agency because he
was sure he was suffering a
terminal illness, terminal
cancer.
So when OSI received
this letter,
they conducted a check
through the Department
of Defense indices
of information,
trying to verify the fact, what
he told them in that letter.
Raymond told the
agents that he was
a retired civilian employment
employee at Dugway Proving
Grounds as a combat
photographer.
He'd been in World War II
as a combat photographer
and he was a retired from
the US Army as a civilian.
Well somehow the
names, Air Force OSI
entered the wrong name in the
Department of Defense indices
and found out that there
wasn't anybody with that name.
So they filed the
letter as a hoax.
Well, a few weeks later,
he called the office,
Raymond did, and Raymond
explained to them, hey,
I still got this stuff out here.
You got to come up
here and see me.
Well, when they got the
right information, entered it
into the computer, found out
that in fact, Raymond Petrovsky
was in fact, a retired
army, US civilian,
been employed at
Dugway Proving Grounds
and had been in World War
II as a combat photographer.
>>EMERY: What type of pictures
and videos did he have?
And were you privy to that?
>>RICHARD: Well, two
agents went out there
and found out what he had.
And they referred it to a
special team of investigators,
and I was one of them.
>>EMERY: That's you.
>>RICHARD: And I went out
there, and over a period
of several months I had
contact with Raymond.
And he told a story
that I think is probably
the most interesting story
and most fascinating story
that I've ever heard
about a contactee
with extraterrestrials.
In 1967, Raymond was
coming home from work
and he saw this huge object
flying along his property line.
He lived just outside Dugway
Proving Grounds, a gate.
He saw this object,
and he thought, well,
it must be from Dugway or
Hill or one of the bases
around there.
Well, then the craft landed.
And then out came these two
creatures with helmets on.
They walked up to his
fence and stood there.
And a few minutes later, this
other creature came down.
Now this creature, as
we saw in the films
that he showed us
later, and pictures,
was about seven foot tall.
Very large, very thin, had
a very large and drawn face.
Huge eyes, two small openings
for the nose, small mouth.
Two openings for the ears.
It had a cape, and it seemed
to have some kind of attachment
across here, like
a wire or a chain.
And it had a collar,
a large collar.
Just almost like a costume.
>>EMERY: Like a tunic?
>>RICHARD: Almost like a tunic.
But it was open.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>RICHARD: And over a period
of time, this creature
communicated with Raymond.
>>EMERY: There's
multiple visits.
>>RICHARD: Multiple visits,
over a 10-year period.
And during this time period,
during the first visit,
there was no actual
communications,
because even though
this creature had
some kind of a cylinder
that it was speaking into
and the cylinder was
voicing English words,
Raymond couldn't understand
it, because the words had
no context.
There were just words.
There were no ands, if, buts.
There was no first
or second person.
So Raymond figured it was
some kind of a translator.
But he couldn't understand it.
Well, the creature left,
came back a few weeks later.
This time, Raymond heard the
creature talking in his head.
And he would, he thought
it was fascinating.
When I was interviewing
Raymond, I said,
that's probably telepathy.
And I explained to
him what it was,
and Raymond realized that's
exactly how we communicated
for the next 10 years.
During the second visit,
Raymond took photographs.
Now he was a combat
photographer,
had been photographer,
retired, he
had a lot of different cameras.
He spent a lot of money
on different cameras.
A Hasselblad, one of the high
tech ones, a brand new Canon
AE-1 and all these
different ones
that he was taking pictures.
>>EMERY: The ETs, were
they aware of this
or were they gun shy about it?
Did he mention, oh, may
I take your picture?
Or did he just, did they have
a conversation about that or it
just, he just started
taking pictures?
>>RICHARD: He just
started taking pictures.
And the ETs didn't seem to care.
The ET, Raymond
would always refer
to this entity as a creature.
And I ask, I asked him, why
are you calling it a creature?
Where was it from?
He said, the alien's
calling himself a creature.
And probably because
the word creature,
Raymond could
understand it more.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>RICHARD: Now than
other thing, he
explained where he
came from to Raymond.
But Raymond had only an
eighth grade education,
although he had a
lot of common sense.
Raymond didn't
understand astronomy,
didn't understand the stars.
He couldn't
understand quite what
this creature was telling him.
But on one visit, the creature
got out these star charts
and he pointed to Earth.
And he told Raymond,
that's your home.
And then moved his finger
to this other point
and said, my home.
Raymond said he was
pointing to Pluto.
Well, I thought, eh,
you know Raymond,
I don't know if it's Pluto.
And this was in 1981.
>>EMERY: Right.
That's a big star chart.
>>RICHARD: Pluto is a
planet, but it's real small.
I don't think it
could hold life.
could have been Pluto.
All along, all
during the time I was
with Raymond over
the period of months,
he was convinced it was Pluto.
But there was one time
where Raymond had bought
this atlas of the universe.
You could get it, it was a
"Reader's Digest" version.
And he showed me that,
he showed it to me.
He opened it up and showed
the visitor, the creature,
where Earth was, and
he asked the creature,
where do you live, and
he pointed to Pluto.
Well, was he telling the truth?
Now Raymond never pictured
that, gave us a picture of that.
There were some things
that Raymond told us
that we found out
later wasn't accurate.
But for the most
part, everything
he told us about the creature
and everything he told us
by his visits could be
verified by pictures.
He had thousands of pictures.
He had pictures
of this creature.
The creature was kind
of hideous looking.
It didn't have any thumbs.
Had four fingers.
One of the fingers was larger
than the other fingers.
There were only about maybe
20 or 30 colored pictures
that he took.
Most of the pictures
that Raymond took
were black and white.
He did take an eight
millimeter movie picture.
He had a brand new movie camera
he had bought in the early '70s
I think, or whenever it was.
And he took a, he took a, and
you could make color film out
of the little eight.
He took one, and
I think it lasted
about 16 minutes of this
creature, of this visit there.
And that showed this
creature up close.
I mean, he was only maybe
six feet away from Raymond.
So it was up close and personal.
We don't know how to
classify that creature.
We thought it was a
Trantaloid, but yeah, I
don't know, it had
to be something else,
because we had the
pictures to prove
that he had contact with him.
>>EMERY: So back
to the star charts,
you were talking about the ETs
bringing these star charts out.
Were these charts, what
were they made out of?
What did it look like?
>>RICHARD: Well, on film, it
looked like a piece of plastic.
And not being there,
Raymond didn't really
explain what it was.
But it was a huge,
it was probably
three foot by two foot.
It was a huge chart.
That it seemed like the way
it looked from the movie
that he filmed, they
pulled it out of something
and they set it down.
And it was glossy in
appearance, it had depth.
>>EMERY: Mm-hmm.
>>RICHARD: It was dimensional.
We have a picture of it.
He took stills of it.
Because obviously, he took a
lot of pictures of this chart,
so they left it there for
him to take pictures of.
So they wanted him to
know or maybe wanted
him to give to somebody else.
And he did scan it
with his camera.
But we, we had an
astronomer look at it.
He couldn't understand it.
He couldn't plot, we
knew where Earth was,
because that's where
he, but nothing seemed
to jive with what our chart or
our solar system would appear.
>>EMERY: Do you think, when
we look at our star charts
here on books and on our
computers, they're in the 2D.
It's just flat.
Perhaps maybe what do you think?
Maybe this was in a 3D,
so it threw everybody off.
>>RICHARD: We
thought of the fact
that this star chart
that he's showing
Raymond was photographed from
space into our solar system,
however they did that, and so
it's distorted to our view.
We don't have a view from that.
I think we do have one
from horizon that was just
filmed in 2015,
but before that, we
didn't have a view from space.
And so it's probably distorted.
And the three
dimensional aspect of it
distorts our view of
where Earth would be
and where his planet would be.
Probably 10 or 12 light
years apart rather
than Pluto being how
far, whatever it is Pluto
is from Earth.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>RICHARD: Raymond was
convinced it was Pluto,
but we thought, eh, no, I
don't think it is Pluto.
>>EMERY: Sounds like
the conquered definitely
dimensional space
travel it seems,
and it sounds like they
have also possibly gone
inter-dimensional as well.
>>RICHARD: Well, Raymond did
say, and in a crude manner,
we kind of drew it
out of him, and I
wasn't talking to him at the
time, one of the scientists
were.
But we said, we asked him,
did they explain anything
about their travel?
He said, yeah.
They explained that they could
go from one point to another
faster than we can go
from one point to another.
And we asked him, now the
scientist is talking, I'm not,
but how are they doing that?
Are they going faster
than the speed of light?
He said, I don't know,
but they showed me
some things in a hologram
how they could do it.
They would set up this, well,
he didn't call it hologram,
but later on, they
would set this up
and it would be a dot
over and a dot over here
and they'd say that they could
move this dot closer, well,
bending the fabric of space
as some scientists say
we could do, or finding maybe
a wormhole someplace that
could go from another.
>>EMERY: Oh, it's fantastic.
I think it was great
that they picked Raymond
and in layman's terms, he was
able to discuss it with you
and open up to the
scientists as well,
giving a different perspective.
And maybe that's also
why they chose Raymond.
>>RICHARD: Yeah, Raymond had a
crude way of explaining things.
But I tell you, he had
a lot of common sense.
He might not have
been that educated,
he had eighth grade
education and whatever
he picked up after that, but
he had a lot of common sense.
He could reason things out real,
rationally reasoning things
out.
He didn't know how to explain it
when he reasoned it because he
didn't have the vocabulary.
He might go a roundabout
way of explaining things,
but then you could get the gist
of what he was talking about.
And these scientists, I
mean, I'm not a scientist,
but these scientists
were understanding
what he was saying, what
Raymond was explaining to them
about how they traveled.
And they were convinced it was
maybe inter-dimensional travel.
>>EMERY: Right, mm-hmm.
>>RICHARD: Or they could
bend the fabric of space
and travel faster from
one point to another.
>>EMERY: Was he
shown any technology?
>>RICHARD: He was shown
a lot of technology.
The creature would
bring out this plate.
He called it a plate, a tray.
He said a tray
with a plate on it.
And you see it in
a picture and it
looks like a tray you
might make cookies on.
And then there was some
kind of protrusion.
And this creature
was able to show
things coming out of this
place, out of the plate,
like holograms.
And the holograms would
move and would tell a story.
Now he only took,
Raymond only took
one movie of that showing
the holograms moving.
But he took, he'd taken some
still pictures later on.
Raymond didn't understand it.
He didn't understand what
this creature was trying
to explain to him,
because everything
was going through his head
after the second meeting.
He was hearing the
voices in his head.
But he also told us
that this creature
was throwing so many voices
in his head, not voices, but.
>>EMERY: Information.
>>RICHARD: Information.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>RICHARD: That Raymond
couldn't keep up with it.
So there's a lot of things that
was lost that Raymond should
have remembered,
but he couldn't.
Put these holograms
just fascinated us,
and fascinated Raymond.
How did he do this?
Of course, Raymond
couldn't understand it.
We had some knowledge.
I had a scientist with
me during these talks
with him, interviews,
and he could
explain how we could do
it even back in the '80s.
So these were things
that fascinated him.
And they were trying to
explain technology to Raymond.
But Raymond just
didn't understand it.
>>EMERY: Right.
Well, they chose
him for something.
>>RICHARD: They chose
him for some reason.
And looking at everything
that Raymond had,
there had to be some
kind of a reason for them
choosing somebody like Raymond.
Why didn't they choose a
scientist or astronomer
or a doctor or somebody?
They just chose.
>>EMERY: Well, here
you have someone
who's a professional
photographer in the military.
Maybe they know something
about the future
that this was going to be
released to help us move on.
>>RICHARD: That's possible.
In fact, I think
later on, I think
that was one of the
theories that we had.
The scientists, the
people that analyzed
his mountain of information.
And I tell you, there were
thousands of pictures.
There were probably 30 or
40 eight millimeter movies.
And there were
some other, he had
a camera that could take
large portrait-type pictures.
And I don't remember what
the name of that camera was.
But he took a lot of them.
He actually took a picture,
several of them, of the crew.
The whole crew of
this craft came out.
The ironic part about it is,
this creature that he met
was probably two to four
feet taller than all
the other crew members.
And the creature
looked a lot different
than these other creatures.
Now you're talking
about humanoids.
>>EMERY: Programmed lifeforms.
>>RICHARD: Programmed lifeforms.
I think these other creatures,
as Raymond was explaining to us
was a security detail,
but I'm sure some of 'em
were crew, other crew members.
There were four
creatures that never
communicated with
Raymond, but you
could see 'em in these films.
And they had an object
they were carrying.
I don't know if it was a weapon
or maybe a translator device.
But they all had helmets on.
And these helmets were
really thick helmets
and they had protrusions like
they had goggles on their eyes.
And that was never
explained to Raymond,
and Raymond could
never understand it.
But these were probably the
security detail, probably
something guarding
the larger creature.
And there were some
others in the background
that had nothing on but
real tight-fitting suits.
And they looked a lot
different than the creature.
They were smaller.
They're probably five foot.
They had something on their
head, maybe a really light type
of helmet.
But they were always
in the background
and you couldn't
ever really see them.
You could see, you
could see their persons,
but you couldn't get them, you
couldn't see them up close.
>>EMERY: How many were spread
around this group photo?
>>RICHARD: There
were probably 15.
I don't remember the
number exactly, 12 to 15,
something like that.
>>EMERY: What did
this craft look like?
>>RICHARD: The craft was huge.
The craft was like a house.
It had protrusions on
the top and the bottom.
It had these other protrusions,
almost like vents right
where the ladder came down.
>>EMERY: There was a ladder?
>>RICHARD: Yeah.
The ladder would drop where
the creature would come down.
>>EMERY: Did they climb
down it or did just hover?
>>RICHARD: No, no, they
would walk down a plank.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>RICHARD: Like a plank.
The creature was the
only one that used that.
The other crew members
of the security detail
came down a ladder that
was coming straight down.
They would just climb down
the ladder, not the ramp.
>>EMERY: And that was on video.
>>RICHARD: That was on video.
>>EMERY: That's impressive.
>>RICHARD: Many videos of that.
He would set up, although
he was never told,
Raymond was never told,
the creature never told,
I'm going to be
back next Tuesday
or actually Wednesday
anything like that.
He knew it would be 10,
15, 20 days, maybe a month.
But he had cameras set up.
He had actually built these
coverings for his cameras
for inclement
weather, just in case.
And he had them all ready.
So when they came, he
just had to turn them on.
He brought electrical
source out,
so he could just
turn on the cameras.
When he got it, he got this
craft coming in for a landing,
landing and leaving,
flying away.
He said.
>>EMERY: Did he know when
they were going to come?
Did they say, hey, we're
going to come by tomorrow?
>>RICHARD: No, no,
he didn't know.
>>EMERY: He didn't know.
>>RICHARD: They would
come back to visit him.
And he would expect them.
But he didn't, there
wasn't a regular type.
One of the things that he said
that the creature couldn't
understand was their calendar.
He brought out a calendar.
And in fact, he took
still pictures of it.
There wasn't a video.
But it took still pictures of
him with a camera over here,
showing this
creature a calendar.
And Raymond said he had no
idea what I was talking about.
He didn't understand
what a calendar was.
>>EMERY: Now why was he
why was Raymond doing this?
Like, what was his intention?
To keep this to himself?
To later share it
with his family?
>>RICHARD: Well, first of
all, Raymond was an orphan.
He was born in 1922 in
Virginia City, Nevada.
He had an aunt that put him
in an orphanage, Catholic
orphanage in California.
And he lived in the
orphanage until he was 15.
He ran away from the
orphanage, went back to Nevada,
worked in a mine until he
was 17 and joined the army.
And he was trained as a combat
photographer World War II.
He served his time,
got out and in '46.
Worked in a mine in Nevada and
eventually got a job at Dugway.
So he didn't have
a lot of education,
and he didn't have any family.
Never married,
never had children.
And he really said he didn't
have a lot of friends.
So when it came
time to do something
with all of this stuff,
when he went to the doctor,
doctor said, you're
going to die.
And another thing Raymond did,
was he was a chain smoker.
All during the time
I had contact him,
he probably smoked four to
five packs of cigarettes a day.
>>EMERY: Do you think
there's anything special
with his DNA or
just him alone that
was attractive to these
extraterrestrials?
>>RICHARD: Funny you
should mention that.
They did take, they
did take his blood.
>>EMERY: The ETs or we did?
>>RICHARD: No, the
ETs took his blood.
On one occasion, and he, this
was an after, afterthought
on his part.
This was towards the
end of my visits.
He was real sick.
He would cough and cough
and cough and cough,
because he had lung cancer.
And there was just one
last thing he told us.
He said, oh, by the way,
they did a physical on me.
And I said, what do
you mean a physical?
He said, they examined me.
I said, well, did they
did they take any fluids?
He said, well,
they took my blood.
And they took some of my
skin and they took my hair.
I said, why did they do that?
He said, they just did it.
I don't know why they did it.
They didn't hurt me.
I just thought that
maybe they were,
they wanted to see what
my species was like.
And then that's when
I asked him, I said,
did they offer
anything from you?
Maybe you could get
something from them?
And then he showed, he
had a box, a wooden box
that he'd opened up.
And this was an afterthought.
>>EMERY: Mm-hmm.
>>RICHARD: Because we had
everything else packaged up
to take.
He said, oh, I wanted
to be buried with these.
And they were figurines.
And each one was a
different figure.
And it was like it
maybe was a goddess,
some kind of a goddess.
>>EMERY: What was
it made out of?
>>RICHARD: Some kind of a clay.
I don't think we
ever really realized
what it was made out of.
And one of the things that
was disappointing to me
is, I spent all this
time in doing probably
15 or 20 reports, I
looked at all this stuff,
but we had to
package just stuff up
and we had to ship it to Defense
Intelligence Agency at Bolling
Air Force Base.
And I would call them
almost on a regular basis
and say, hey, what's
your analysis showing?
We'll get you the report later.
>>EMERY: Mm-hmm.
>>RICHARD: We'll get
you the report later.
Well, [INTERPOSING VOICES]
I never got a report.
>>EMERY: It's very
frustrating, very frustrating.
>>RICHARD: Very,
very frustrating.
>>EMERY: Being an investigator
of your caliber and meeting
with these amazing people that
have this amazing experience.
Did you also confiscate
the figurines?
>>RICHARD: Yes, we took 'em.
He was reluctant, because
he told us, I wanted to,
I want to be buried
with these things.
And I said, well, they're just,
they'll just be nothing to us.
We might be able to study
this and find something.
The material that it's made of
or maybe the meaning behind it.
>>EMERY: But you guys didn't
take any of his blood tissue
samples or DNA?
>>RICHARD: Yes we did.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>RICHARD: Yeah, we sure
>>EMERY: That's
standard protocol.
>>RICHARD: Because
we had a doctor come,
I don't remember what visit
it was, but we had a doctor
and we had our own
physician at OSI.
He came in and we thought
maybe the creature's contacts
caused his illness.
And so we took, they took, we
took him to a Hill Air Force
Base and they did, I
don't know exactly,
I wasn't there when they did
this, but they examined him.
They took lung tissue, they
took other things to examine.
Again, that's part
of the material
that went to headquarters that
I don't know whatever it found.
I don't know.
>>EMERY: Did you guys confiscate
his body after he passed away?
>>RICHARD: No.
They didn't want it.
>>EMERY: Rick, could
you describe for us
how the craft in the
videos were landing,
how they were taking off?
Do they have some
sort of stabilizers?
Did they just hover there?
>>RICHARD: The first
one, the first video
we had was it coming
in for a landing.
It came in really, really fast.
I mean, he was photographing
this from a distance,
so he obviously had been out
there watching this or looking
for it.
It was coming in
from the southwest,
because his fence
pointed to the south.
It was coming in
from the southwest.
It came really fast.
You could see it.
It kept getting bigger
and bigger and bigger.
You could see it
was moving fast.
And it would slowly stop,
right, and hover right
over where it was going to land.
And if you look at,
this is something
we went back and looked
at in the photographs,
it landed at the exact same
position, that same place
every single time.
So as it came in,
it slowed down,
struts would come out
from I don't know where,
and it would land, just
like a flying saucer.
And then the ladders
would drop down.
The security detail,
we would say, came out.
And then a few minutes
later, the ramp would drop
and the large creature
would come down.
And he also had a
very, very good motion
picture, movie picture, eight
millimeter of it leaving.
The creature went up.
Once the ramp went up,
the security details
got into the ladders, went up.
There was a bright blue glow.
I mean, it was very prominent.
Blue glow.
And we didn't see
this on the landing,
but we saw it on takeoff.
And this was a colored
one that he had taken.
Blue glow came from the
bottom of the craft.
And the craft would rise slowly.
It wasn't fast.
>>EMERY: Was there a
dust or trees moving?
>>RICHARD: No, no dust,
nothing, no, no, no, no.
That's what I was
going to say next.
The debris seemed to
stand still on the ground.
If there was any other type
of craft, even a hovercraft
or something taking
off, debris would
be all over the place
like a helicopter.
Nothing.
Everything remained still.
We couldn't understand
that either,
and I don't think the
aeronautics people
that we showed this to
understood it either.
It would take off
and probably got
to I would just
estimate, 500 feet,
and then it was slowly take off
to the same place, southwest,
and then shot away.
Just like speed of light.
>>EMERY: Hmm.
>>RICHARD: And that was it.
>>EMERY: Brilliant.
Were there any scents or smells
from the beings or the craft?
>>RICHARD: When he was
allowed onto the craft,
the creature took
him on to the craft
to show him the
interior of the craft.
And immediately when he got in
there, he smelt this strange,
and he described it to
us and then we told him
it was probably ozone.
He said, that's what it was.
In fact, we were able to
get a canister of ozone
not at that visit, but
another visit, and sprayed it.
And he said, that's the smell.
All over the craft
with this ozone
smelling material or odor.
And so that's the only
odor he ever detected.
But we asked him also, did
the creature emit an odor?
No, he could never
detect an odor.
>>EMERY: What do you think
the significance of this ozone
smell was with the craft?
>>RICHARD: I wouldn't
have known what
it was, but one of
my experts that I
had brought with me thought
it had to do with the gravity.
Manipulation of
the gravity inside,
he said we can do this with a
craft in an experimental way
and there's an ozone smell.
Because it manipulates
the molecules.
And that's what they think
it was, that the gravity
or how they were able to
manipulate the gravity.
Now there were
occasions when Raymond
said they were trying to
explain things to him,
but he wasn't understanding
what they were explaining.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>RICHARD: And maybe that's
what they were explaining.
>>EMERY: High amounts of
energy, like lightning bolts,
make this ozone too.
>>RICHARD: That's
true, that's true.
>>EMERY: There's probably
a large amount of energy
that's being expelled
for this craft
or around the craft for
it to maneuver around.
Rick, tell me about the
inside of the craft.
You said you saw some
videos, some pictures.
Could you depict what you saw?
What did it look like?
>>RICHARD: There were seats
where apparently the pilots
or co-pilot sat .
But there wasn't any
instruments that we would see
in an aircraft or a spaceship.
There wasn't any levers or
toggles or anything like this.
But there were hand plates.
And he explained it, the
one thing that Raymond did
explain to us, he said
they flew by their hands.
They put their hands
in these hand plates.
And these hand
plates were all over.
There were probably a dozen
different places where they
could put these their hands in.
And the only screen he
saw was this huge screen.
But it wasn't on.
He didn't see
anything out of it.
But he saw this big huge screen.
And he said to us, it
was like a TV screen.
>>EMERY: Did you see
any edges or corners,
or was it seamless and round?
>>RICHARD: No, it was seamless.
That's another
thing that was odd.
It was all seamless.
Everything was so
manipulated in a way
that there wasn't any edges
and with sharp corners
or anything like that.
It was all circular, it was
all, he called it matted
gray in color.
And one of the things, another
thing he was fascinated by
was the floor of the
craft seemed to give.
It was like he was
walking on something.
And he would, he
walked to the left
and then he came
up into the area.
But he walked through, he
said, through a bubble.
When he came out, they took
him to another location
where there were individual
rooms or maybe quarters.
And they did have in, the
only one he actually filmed,
it was a small cubicle
with what looked like a bed
and what looked like a bench.
But that's the only thing
that was, oh, and a screen.
That's the only thing.
Now no one to explained
to, the creature
didn't explain to Raymond
that this was a crew quarters
or what it was.
And he walked back around
and then he went down
a level, another level, and
he said as he got lower,
it was like he was
walking in quicksand.
Although when he looked down,
there within any quicksand.
It was like the floors,
the floor was giving.
It was, and he thought,
he was fascinated by it.
He was scared at first.
But the creature said, no, no,
you're all right, keep walking.
He got down what he says
was the engine room.
And all you could see
in this engine room
was a huge round circular
device with some lights flashing
on it and this protrusion
on top with he said,
a light bulb, which shoot up.
Apparently, they turned it
on or something for him,
but the camera was facing
the other direction.
And he told us, he said, well,
there was a light bulb that
shot up in the air.
I said, you didn't get that?
He said, no I was
facing a different way,
but he said I saw 'em do it.
>>EMERY: Hmm.
>>RICHARD: So that
was the only time.
And then he walked back out.
He went to a top, a top area.
And he said it kept
circling, it was a circle.
He got up there and you
could see out these windows.
And he could look
all the way around.
He could see his house, he
could see all the way around
from this top.
But he said was real small.
He had to really crunch down.
Raymond was maybe
5' 8", 5' 9", so he
had to really almost
crawl to look.
But another thing Raymond
said, on the outside,
you couldn't see that.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>RICHARD: It was
like you're looking
at just something black, you
couldn't see any windows.
>>EMERY: Was he recording
sound when he was in there?
Did you hear the
background noise
of other extraterrestrials
communicating
or the vibration of
the ship perhaps?
>>RICHARD: The only
video we had with sound
was one he took towards
the end of the visit,
the 10-year period.
No, there wasn't
any of those moving
pictures didn't have any sound.
And we asked him about that.
He said, that's not easy to do.
At least back in those
days, it wasn't easy to do.
And what we found out,
one of the things,
he's supposed to be an
expert, one of the things
that we found out when
he gave us a camera,
there was a way to do
the sound, but he just
couldn't figure it out.
Anyway, so there
wasn't any sound.
So there wasn't a
sound from any craft.
What Raymond did do, was
after he came off the craft
and after the craft left,
he made a little video
of myself talking about it.
He said, I just went
into the creature's craft
and I saw these places
where they put their hand
that they could fly the craft.
I saw where they had
to be strapped down,
so there must be no
gravity in the craft.
He talked about it.
He kind of narrated it.
Not in a detailed manner.
>>EMERY: That's great though.
>>RICHARD: Yeah.
But he did explain
some things to us.
He said, and one of the
things he asked him was,
do you have a bathroom in here?
You know what?
They couldn't understand
what a bathroom was.
And another thing
that didn't happen.
That creature never went
into Raymond's house.
He never left the other
side of the fence,
because Raymond had a
chain link fence, a small,
about a four foot chain link
fence around his property.
That creature would come up and
stand on his side of the fence
and Raymond was on
his side of the fence.
>>EMERY: So he was.
>>RICHARD: He was on the south
side, he was on the north side.
Raymond invited the creature
in a number of times,
but the creature said no.
>>EMERY: Was there a gate there?
Did Raymond just hop the fence
each time with his equipment?
>>RICHARD: No, all the equipment
was on his side of the fence.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
>>RICHARD: All the cameras
were on his side of fence.
Raymond never went on the
other side of the fence.
>>EMERY: Well, to
get in the craft
I thought you would have to.
>>RICHARD: Well, yeah, yeah.
There was a gate at
the, would've been
the west, probably the
west end of his backyard.
That's the gate he
used to go inside.
But he only was in there once.
But every other time he's
remained on his side.
And we ask him
again, why would you,
why wouldn't you shake his hand?
Why wouldn't you?
He said, it was just the way
he wanted it, they wanted it.
You stay there, we'll stay here.
I don't if they
didn't trust him.
But you figured after 10 years
of having contact with the guy.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>RICHARD: They would
have trusted him enough.
And plus, he offered
him on one occasion,
and this was filmed
too, he had snacks.
He had--
>>EMERY: Milk and cigarettes?
>>RICHARD: No, no cigarettes.
But milk, cookies and I
think sandwiches and fruit.
>>EMERY: That's fantastic.
>>RICHARD: They took
the fruit, but they
didn't take anything else.
They took the fruit.
And the creature
picked up the, or I
think the film showed
Raymond handed it.
Raymond was left-handed too.
He handed him across
the fence, the apple.
It was an apple.
And the creature took the apple.
>>EMERY: So they're vegetarians.
>>RICHARD: He never
saw him eat it.
I don't know that he
took, I think, he looked,
you could see the alien
look at the apple like,
I wonder what this was.
And then handed it off to
one of the security people.
So I think probably
they were just
going to figure out
what that thing was.
>>EMERY: They definitely trusted
him just to grab something out
of his hand.
>>RICHARD: Yes.
>>EMERY: That's an
amazing amount of trust.
>>RICHARD: Yes.
But they wouldn't
take anything else.
They declined any
kind of nourishment,
other than the apple, which
was kind of strange to me.
But then we thought about
it more and we thought,
I bet probably
never seen an apple.
They didn't know what
it was, so they're
going to take it in and do
experiments on it, figure out
what this thing is.
>>EMERY: What about Raymond?
Did he ever tell you like,
did he ever say maybe
or did you ever
ask him, why do you
think they picked you for this?
>>RICHARD: Oh, yeah,
at the end we did.
We asked, we asked him.
He said he didn't know.
He said he thinks it
was just by chance.
They were just coming in and
saw his trailer and landed.
And I said, do you
think, do you think
they're in contact with others?
Oh, yeah, I know they are.
He said, I know they've
been to other states.
I said, how do you know that?
He said, they told me
they traveled around.
Because one of the
things he asked them was,
did you meet any other
humans other than me?
And they admitted that they had.
They didn't go
into details, they
didn't say anything
like how many
or where, but it was just
Raymond's thought process that
said, yeah, I think they
probably seen other humans.
>>EMERY: Would you
say this is some
of the most factual
video and photography
that you've ever
seen in your career?
>>RICHARD: Absolutely.
This is the most amazing
story of an alien contact
that I've ever heard
of or ever seen or been
associated with in all my career
as an intelligence officer.
This was totally
100% believable.
>>EMERY: And how many of these
investigations have you've
done in your career?
>>RICHARD: Many, many of them.
And this is with evidence.
A lot of them are
not with evidence,
it's just with somebody's
telling a story
and maybe has some
indentations on the ground
where some craft had landed.
But this had everything.
Evidence, documents, film.
How can you film
something like this?
How can, how can, I
mean, how could you
fake this film with a guy
that had an eighth grade
education and these aliens that
are, how do you dress them up?
>>EMERY: A decade of this.
>>RICHARD: How do you
make something like that?
There's no, Steven
Spielberg couldn't
have done a set like that.
>>EMERY: Wow, Rick,
what a compelling story.
I love all the facts
to it too as well.
Well, great investigative work.
Rick, thanks for
being on the show.
>>RICHARD: You're very welcome.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]